1. What query would you run to get all the countries that speak Slovene? 
Your query should return the name of the country, language and language percentage. 
Your query should arrange the result by language percentage in descending order. (1)

select countries.name, languages.language, languages.percentage as 'perc'
FROM languages
join countries on countries.id = languages.country_id
WHERE language = 'Solvene'
order by perc DESC

2. What query would you run to display the total number of cities for each country? 
Your query should return the name of the country and the total number of cities. 
Your query should arrange the result by the number of cities in descending order. (3)

select countries.name as CNAME, COUNT(cities.id) as num
FROM countries
join cities on cities.country_id = countries.id
group by CNAME
order by num DESC

3. What query would you run to get all the cities in Mexico with a population of greater than 500,000? 
Your query should arrange the result by population in descending order. (1)

select cities.name, cities.population, countries.name
From cities
right join countries on countries.id = cities.country_id
where countries.name = 'Mexico' and cities.population > 500000
order by cities.population DESC

4. What query would you run to get all languages in each country with a percentage greater than 89%? 
Your query should arrange the result by percentage in descending order. (1)

select languages.percentage as Percentage, countries.name, language
from languages
left join countries on countries.id = languages.country_id
where languages.percentage > 89
order by percentage DESC

5. What query would you run to get all the countries with Surface Area below 501 
and Population greater than 100,000? (2)

select countries.surface_area, countries.population
From countries
where surface_area < 501 and population > 100000

6. What query would you run to get countries with only Constitutional Monarchy 
with a capital greater than 200 and a life expectancy greater than 75 years? (1)

select countries.name, countries.government_form, countries.life_expectancy
from countries
where countries.government_form = 'Constitutional Monarchy'
	AND countries.life_expectancy > 75 AND countries.capital > 200

7. What query would you run to get all the cities of Argentina inside the Buenos 
Aires district and have the population greater than 500, 000? The query should return 
the Country Name, City Name, District and Population. (2)

select countries.name, cities.name, cities.district, cities.population
from countries join cities on cities.country_id = countries.id
WHERE cities.district = 'Buenos Aires' 
	AND countries.name = 'Argentina'
    AND cities.population > 500000

8. What query would you run to summarize the number of countries in each region? 
The query should display the name of the region and the number of countries. Also,
 the query should arrange the result by the number of countries in descending order. (2)

select countries.region, COUNT(countries.region) AS NUM
from countries
group by countries.region
order by NUM DESC